Hello, dear listener and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain.
The only Space 1999 commentary podcast that still feels bad about shooting God through the head that one time.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Adam.
I'm Don.
And I'm the Gillette Spray Foam, BBC. effect that's found a whole new life in this episode.
Have I got the word?
No.
All I kept thinking about was a teenage boys sock drawer.
We haven't even got to the frozen moment, Bonsai Jism tree.
So we are watching season one, episode 21 Space Brain.
Oh, I thought it was Space Bookaki.
No.
It's not Brian LeBron.
If it's Australian, it's space brine.
Space brine.
Space Pride.
G'day, Ryan.
Which is... just over 50 years old.
Wow, like all of us here.
Actually, that's true.
That's actually true.
So we'll get going because this is 50 pretty languid minutes.
We'll run out, needs to say.
So we're not going to do a big introduction.
I'm just going to say our key word.
And our keyword is Omo.
And when I next say that word, I want Richard and the viewer at home to press play.
So here goes Omo.
Oh, no. we're off.
Oh, it's the space base.
It's a space base.
So we do have that normal music.
It's Melbourneians in lockdown.
Why?
It's so bizarre.
Isn't that why they all doing it?
all doing jigsaws.
He's doing a Van Eyke.
Yes.
I'm not sure.
And he's being really slow about it for someone that comes through and later says, I did it in record time.
I think he was always boasting to the ladies.
He's edging.
Always boasting the ladies were never...
That's the most important bit of jigsaw.
Look at him. sitting there with all of his friends.
I know.
Listen, if I had an apartment full of Artemay Day 1970.
Oh, yeah.
I wouldn't need you.
I've got to say, though, this is the worst acting I've ever seen.
Because I don't know if you finished a jigsaw, but it is a euphoric moment.
Even if it's one you've done a 100 times.
And he looks like the after the euphoric moment when you're like, oh, now I have to clean up the corner.
Well, he had a wank first.
So you should never wank before finishing the jigsaw. jigsaw.
I don't think you can out.
Just all disappointment.
Sandra and Paul have had their own.
Yeah, exactly.
They don't need a jigsaw.
Happy sitting there complaining.
This is SP 20. very late in the run.
It's one of the few we're getting now that was actually formed great.
Have you noticed Marty's hairs completely new?
He also has a brand new uniform.
He's got a new row.
He's got 2 new uniforms because he bagged the other ones and he expressed bitterly.
He almost held up shooting.
He expressed bitterly to Jerry and Sylvia.
This one makes me look bulgy because you can see my under things underneath me.
And it makes me when I bend forward, I'm fat.
And Sylvia just gave him a baleful blue stare and Jerry said, we'll see what we can do. can see what we can do.
She didn't say, oh, darling, you are fast.
Stop eating the English.
No, are we sure that's the tree.
There's the bonds, I do some tree.
That's actually some trade.
Are we sure that's not Hebrew?
That's a lecture.
It's the Bible code.
Oh, yeah.
Here's the Bible code.
Don't look at it.
It's the ark.
The Ark of the Covenant.
Well, yeah.
Well, actually, I think it's they haven't paid the subscription for the porn channel.
Like in the 80s.
It's all it's all scrambled.
I don't need to.
You got Victor.
Does his own?
This is the same corridor, every single shot.
They don't even bother changing the stickers. at this stage.
And this Sandra's saying, I've got no lines and fuck you all.
I'm not going to do anything.
I did watch the accompanying, you know, the accompanying, you know, documentary thing.
Oh, yes.
And she does find something to complain about.
What do you drink?
What is it in this one?
She's barely in it, but she does complain that the foam machine filled all of main mission and she couldn't be seen almost immediately.
And then Charlie Crichton came in to say, turn off the phone machine and then he slipped over and fell on his arm. you know what?
They were using jet turbines from old British bombers.
Ama amazing.
The 1st old ROFF ones, they got for nothing.
And they were so loud no one could hear.
Oh, yeah.
Well, I think I think she says Charlie Crichton's going, turn the thing off and like no one no one can hear it.
There's a model shot.
That's a new beer.
Very pretty.
I think there's I think there's a whole lot of party going on right there.
You don't need the phone.
I love that the guy with the moustache gets no lines whatsoever.
I think he's called Cousteau.
Or sub moustache, man.
But not if you're Australian.
Have you?
You're Australian, it's quite different.
Have you ever played attractive or a moustache?
Yeah, yeah, you've started daily.
Every time I look in the mirror.
Like, look at him.
I can't tell if he's hot or it's just a moustache.
No, it's too thin on the corner there.
Oh, it's amazing.
Yeah, it's got a touch of Terry Thomas.
Waylon, the Waylon, the front is actually very, very Scottish, but he's covering his accent beautifully.
Oh, he is.
So this is where I decided maybe the man with the moustache was attractive.
Do you mean the one in the background?
Yeah, the one in the background.
That's just a moustache.
Yeah, and seems to have no other personality.
No.
I decided he was maybe attractive because as they get closer to the space brain and starts to spap on him.
It's pulsating.
I think his moustache gets bigger every time we cut back. point up for the polite listener who is actually here for the show.
This that scene you just saw was the 1st scene in the Penfold script, everything else before that.
Oh, the jigsaw.
The jigsaw.
Everything else before that was filmed right at the end of production.
And I have...
And they realised it was a bit short.
Well, no, it just didn't make any sense. as far as Jerry was concerned. it cost a huge amount of money to remount. to the point of bringing back act tours.
Well, it's the IP of the...
Here it comes...
A moustache.
Trying to aim it at the moustache.
The space bookcake.
Spacebook.
They're flying towards a cotton candy machine.
You do feel as if they've just judged each other off and this is their karma, don't you?
It really is...
Are we playing soggy eagle?
Oh my god.
That was my nickname in high school.
I do a Pull away.
So one of the great things about this episode is just how much fabulous eagle business there. so awesome.
This is why I was saying, I love this episode because it's not asking me to think at any point.
No.
It's just like more space things.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You're one of the people who depended on that brain.
Yeah.
Depending on the brain.
Apparently, there are people depending on the brain.
Who were they?
I don't remember them at all.
What did cat in...?
It's another eagle taking.
I'm rescue eagle this time.
So this is the rescue eagle.
Watch when the stripes disappear.
It is pretty amazing, the Stripes. appear and disappear.
It's a feature of that eagle.
It's not a continuity, yeah.
Venticular.
Lenticular stripes.
Yeah.
Yeah, maybe there's stripes that can only be seen in the very minimal atmosphere of the moon.
Yeah, maybe that's true.
And once it's taken off, then there's no, they're there.
Whee!
It was a rock.
Bloody oath.
It is so depressing.
How slow and particularly, particularly Barbara, like how long it takes Helena.
I just don't think they've watched enough television.
Oh, it's banging.
Because it was fairly obvious to me that's there.
Is it Fido?
Did Fido... big.
It's like a whole story.
And then Victor brings it into my car.
Cat made one of those in her traitors. take a photo for the website, but That's one of my favourite cliffhangers before the opening credits like, a rock.
It's actually really badly edited this.
So that, like, I really wanted a little, just another couple of seconds on the rock. to establish it.
Not a rock.
Just makes everyone feel, oh, God, I haven't pumiced my heels for ages.
I used to hate these intros in any TV show because there was so much foam in this and we don't get foam for hours now.
Yeah, we don't.
It's too much.
It's too much foam in the No, it's the edging...
It's all edging.
I really like I really like that.
I think this show does this show that does the 1st this episode thing?
Oh, Battle Star Galactica doesn't.
Let's do it with Stingray. they do a stingray.
It's their thing. it, doesn't it?
Petricelli used to do it.
Did soap do it?
So it used to do a...
1963.
So before Quinn Martin number four.
Susan Harris, it was Sylvia.
We should also note.
I mean, Battlestar Galactica did it, and it was great.
Yeah, yeah.
The modern battle studies, yeah.
Yes, yes.
They must have got it from here Oh, boys, just to get you.
That is exactly yeah, I know, right.
That is exactly the same angle from breakaway.
Oh wow.
But the little grip thing was the boys getting...
Charles Crichton's doing some great work on this episode, by the way.
Whenever Charlie Crichton does an episode.
Sandra has something to complain about.
Like there's some really interesting shots in this.
Like, there's some interesting, like, you know, camera pans and where you're like, oh, they've been filming in this set for like a 1000000 years.
How has he found a new way to do it?
Yeah, he's really ancient.
You know, his 1st film is 1934.
He was a World War 2 director, like all of those boys.
He does 17 episodes of this.
Yeah.
And they wanted him for.
Sylvia wanted him for everything.
Well, Jerry actually, because Jerry was also a wartime film edit fanboy.
Does he do, did I dream it?
Does he do a fish called Wanda?
Yes.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. still around.
That's a great film.
Yeah, brilliant film.
Yeah, and a whole lot of war stuff.
But like his camera is always moving.
Like, it's always moving with someone that's always, yeah, it's...
Actually, Adam, well spotted.
He is the only one that uses more than one static camera.
No, every other director on this show is this one big old camera just sitting there looking at everyone.
Right why they're so languid and still, you're right.
And Charlie, and again, it's that 3 quarter angle.
Yeah.
Are those the stripes you were talking about?
Yeah, that's the rescue one.
Nick Elder. and Brian John Cock.
Oh, there's there's Scott Tracy.
Yeah, so he's Scott, he's Scott Tracy.
Everything.
Yeah, he's everyone.
Also, he's in Batman Begins.
He is in Batman.
Yes, I think I looked up his IMDb.
He is uncredited for a brief appearance in Star Wars episode four.
That's also known as Star Wars.
And he's also in the Gunfighters.
Yeah, yeah.
Because he's the only actual American. a purple scene.
Although he is Canadian.
He's got the accent.
He's got the North American accent. got the doing accent.
I said American.
I didn't specify United States.
The continent.
Just take his backpack from the cockpit.
And like they're just sending him out.
It's just like, can we not look out the fucking window now?
No, just go out.
We send Shane Rimmer out into space.
Yeah, it's only Shane Rimmer. will be fine.
He didn't do that.
Isn't that cool?
But it's not even tethered.
No, he's got rockets.
But we've had space...
Oh, look.
The space turd.
It's covered in silly string.
It is silly.
It's coming in love this device, though.
Oh, I know.
You've already seen that, remember?
A space dentist, isn't it?
Dr. Taxi.
Barry Morse loves this show.
He's having the best.
I love him so much.
He's so great.
I'm going to be weeping nonstop for 24 episodes of Startling Barbara Bane when he leaves. when he's not in there.
Is this the point where we tell Nathan, this episode contains some of the last scenes they ever filmed for season one?
Oh wow. you when they're on.
Oh my goodness.
Is Barry in them?
I'll let you know.
Okay.
I don't want to...
It is a space string too.
But it was bigger on location or at least not on like a when they were shooting on the moon.
Oh, look, and she's found some of the strings.
She had a look at it organic. organic.
Or organic.
You can eat it and everything.
I've made a shake.
So it's from a farmer's market then?
I was really worried.
Did you look at the clocks?
Yes, Dino, okay.
Yeah, like, but, but then, but then later it's like 7.45, you know, 35. in the afternoon, they're all in bed.
They're all stoned.
They're all in the solariums.
That's why they're doing the fucking jigsaw puzzles.
They're really stoned.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That would make sense.
Martin's got totally different hits.
Human tissue?
They used it to make Martin's new hair.
Yes, he's got new hair for this.
How come he got new hair and poor Barry Morse has to wear?
He's got a big dick.
He does not need anything.
He doesn't need hair.
Yeah.
He's confident.
That's one of my favourite jokes that Tom Gleason does when he's like, oh, I hate those, you know, advanced hair commercials and they're like, oh, don't you want to have more confidence?
He's like, imagine me with more confidence.
I feel the same.
I'm like, I mean, everyone tries to have a go-op if you're being bold.
It's like, mate, I would.
I was a nightmare.
I was an evil twink.
Well, it's evil or dumb.
If given the choice, I go evil every time.
Sometimes they're indistinguishable.
I don't know if you've seen the president of the United States.
Tropical, you come to this point.
We do, yeah, yeah. years old, but we're right now.
I just love this.
Like, suddenly, Alan is in love with Kelly, who we've never seen.
We've never seen him...
You can't expect me to leave Kelly behind. my best man.
Yeah, yeah, that's right.
He grew up with Thunderbirds.
Of course he's going to rescue Kelly.
Kelly used to work with Bud Tingwell.
And my dad national hero.
Nick Tate's dad is on Thunderbirds.
Oh, is he?
Johnny Tony does do guest voice.
Oh, okay, wow.
I love Nick Tate.
Well, I think Shane Rumour does some guest voices on this as well.
Oh, he does... he does computer stuff.
Yeah. 1st episode.
I heard him.
Yeah, okay.
He's one of the generic pilots you never see, but you hear constantly.
And it's completely hypnotised.
Yeah, yeah.
He never even finished his jigsaw.
That's the beat.
That's the one problem with this episode.
It's a big continuity problem. finishes the jigs.
But isn't that one of the ways you know you're not an inceptionist finishing.
In the original app.
Oh my god.
That's some top colony acting from Shane there.
Look at that.
Or is it just a screen cap, you know?
Callie.
No, of course he can't. space.
Stop yelling. use your radio.
Why does why does his wife call him Kelly?
Because he only has one name.
Oh, he's like Madonna.
Yeah, he's like Madonna.
He'll share.
He's big.
He's more like Cher.
He's got a mono nymph.
Unless he's unless Kell Lee is his full name.
Oh, they just called him Kel.
He does call him Cal.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But he's Australian. isn't Nick and Shane.
This is actually Tony Allen and Quentin Pierre dressed up because they because they didn't trust the boys with the Kirby Wise.
It might have been a little bit big for them.
Oh, are you saying Shane Rim is a bit fat shaming.
Yeah.
Shane is surprisingly...
You've woken Bob up.
I love the hot dog.
Dylan is mighty and he's little, he's making, look, he was making pastries.
Oh, his day out in his...
No one wears this ever again.
And I was like, oh, my God, the headpiece is amazing.
I need you to still see my hair, so we're going to have to... whatever the other doctor's got.
I'm not having it So I mentioned this the other, the other episode where when I'm watching this, I'm writing down timestamps of, you know, excellent pictures for Barbara, Barbara.
Every moment she's on screen wearing that bandit.
Well, she's also fucked up the procedure, it's not the cerebellum.
It's the cere broom that...
There we go.
So she got that job by sleeping for me.
That is such cultist swear.
That's what your inner circle of Coke wear.
Those aren't operating gowns.
Is she in like the space Freemason?
No, no, it's space 1999 MLM.
Oh no.
Holy Marie Coombs.
This is... as Kelly's wife, who is one of the only 4 Italians that Martin agrees.
She's called Melita.
She's named after White Goods.
Just to ruin your life, the woman in the far scene in the back, Judith, that's actually Anton Philip's real wife.
Oh, wow.
Yes, and she is playing.
As opposed to his fake wife.
You can call her a beard.
It's fine.
He is so pretty.
Holy crap.
I know, and he's got a real wife.
And he has a massage.
He's hot.
And he has a moustache.
I'm going home to sleep with my wife.
Yeah, we believe you, Anton.
That's why she's turned up.
She's like, he keeps not coming home from work.
I've heard there are a lot of models.
I get a lot of fun.
Space 1999 because it's solarium.
And our waxing budget has gone through the roof.
Martin's hair.
He's just one Lego piece.
Yeah, keeps on, isn't it?
It's really bad.
Can you see his little belly?
You see his little belly sticking out every time he leans forward.
Let's all have a drink whenever it does that.
Is that why they give him a Kagool for series?
Yes.
It really is a cagool.
So bad.
So upsetting.
It's Tam machine.
So, I mean, this is just the Ian McShane.
It's Shane Rimmer or Ian McShane.
You know, like he gets taken over by some space.
Yeah, they just... just reuse stage direction.
Cheap.
I mean, this is episode 20 and like original episode episode 21.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But like all I could think about was much better episodes that this makes fun of, including the one with, what's the one where we just decide to go through the planet and Margaret, what's her face is there?
Collision course.
Black Sun is a bit like that.
You know, obviously Ian McShane.
She's changed the hair helmet.
Yeah, she's got a different hair helmet. different hair helmet.
It's really great.
I was gonna use that one. ingenuity.
Done Little Bob.
Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob.
Surgeon or Fry Cook?
I know.
Oh, now she's got a COVID shield.
No, she's going to weld it.
She's going to work.
He's not a puppet, Barbara.
I think this is the story.
Are we afraid of spitting?
That's like a spit guy.
Look at her.
Yeah, she looks like she's about to go to the all you can eat buffet on a cruise.
Very scared of Nora virus, Barbara.
Must not touch my brain.
Oh, no.
Don't throw bob over the thing.
Oh what's she doing?
So she...
That's Dorothy getting tossed.
Oh, is that?
Bob, no, Dorothy Phillips. that wasn't.
I love Bob's dress.
Yeah.
He's hard, isn't he?
I know.
No, don't take off the dress, Bob.
Shane did all his own stunts though.
Shane's a trooper.
I am wearing the headband.
Oh, no, his tears come loose.
It's like Nile on it, isn't it?
It's so shiny.
It's unbelievable.
Like it looks like it's just come out of the packet.
So are we thinking he's got like a round stud on the top of it?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like the Captain Picard Lego.
Yeah.
It's a full Lego here.
I really...
Like Shane's got no hair and he's...
Obviously, there's a gift shop because they've given him pyjamas.
Lovely silk pyjamas.
Bob's had a haircut too.
What's Bob doing now?
So I always wanted one of these keyboards when I was a kid with like, oh, yes.
Like, someone's, like, whoever's dressing this ad has put them on crooked and really doesn't give a shit.
It's a stenographer keyboard.
Yeah, it is, isn't it?
Yeah, you just have to like, I hit 5 keys at once to do A. is stupid, isn't it?
Yeah, just learn the fucking time, darling.
Or record it.
Yeah, crazy.
Oh, a beard man.
Yes, Tony Allen.
And why are they all Miss Moon contestants with that sash?
I've never seen that sash before.
No, the sashes are always there. an armament slash.
Yeah, that's that's if you've got a gum.
Yeah.
And eggplant sleeves never do well here.
But he is the 1st time Tony Allen has been wearing the official ITV Captain Kremen beard.
The shorter hair.
And he also puts on a quasi Hebridesian accent for this one.
Oh, does he?
wait for it. hilarious.
I hope he's still with us.
We'll get him on the podcast.
That's Tony saying, I'm in the scene, peeking around the corner.
I'm going to do some reacting and I'm going to be good at it.
Because I think probably Ian McShane killed off all the ones who looked like members of ABBA.
Well, did you see who was in that cockpit?
Oh.
It was very abaturous.
Oh, it was that?
No, that's true.
Didn't last long, did they, no?
Oh, no.
The computer.
I love that they call the computer just computer.
Capital C computer.
Oh, no, not the master switch.
Why does the Master Switch have 3 settings, though?
On, off.
And power cycling.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, hibernate.
It's the 90s.
Yeah, it is the 90s.
Wow, that really...
Don't, my hair.
Oh, that was.
Oh, no, they got, they shot him in, he got coloured in.
No, I think Ian, like not Ian.
It's Shane, Shane.
Oh no, Shane's doing some wall acting.
Oh, Shane, great job.
Look, this is great.
You're on a concussion.
That's when you hit Woody Allen.
Oh my god, I read the funniest Woody Allen joke the other day because I know he's in the Epstein files.
And all these comedians are down.
This is the perfect joke of all time.
It's like, please, as if he would cheat on his own daughter.
Yeah.
So who are our other Italians?
Well, there's only four.
There's the big game hunter with the policule in Dragon's domain.
The polycule.
Yes, that monster kills a whole polycule, including Michael Sheard. very upsetting.
There's Giancarlo in the troubled spirit, which is still coming up. that she did a massive soap with, like the bubbles in this episode.
So opera.
And they work together and they, on this, they did actually meet up for the, for the shoot because the episodes were together and they both were apparently saying just, isn't it fun working with the landau's not?
Barbara Payne in front of them.
No one understood what they were saying. cunting off about...
Yeah, but of all of this, because, you know, RAI put up.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But Marty vetoed every single one of the actors for being too pretty.
Then they realised at this stage, what if we just send women and they all got through?
So yeah, there were, there were, there were, um, three, and you'll see.
Is that why the only attractive people here are not white?
Yes, because he didn't see them as a threat.
Well, he didn't see them as a threat if they were very young.
Right.
And also exactly what you just said.
Marty, I mean, what's his face?
Prentice Hancock is attractive at this point.
Not according to Marty.
Also, Prentice.
I guess regular cast.
He was such a guy.
He was always mug.
It's being young and having a moustache.
Had a guitar, mould off his face. a moustache.
But maybe that was it.
You could have a moustache.
Yeah, because maybe he was like, oh, no, people with moustaches aren't attractive.
Not realising where he are going.
I love that all of these nuclear charges are labelled.
The wall of nuclear charges.
It's so great.
You want one for work, don't you?
Yeah, I do.
What I love is later on where they're pulling the isolinear chips out of the out of charges and they explode and you kind of think, I wouldn't have organised...
Do you know what I mean?
To, like, spark and explode.
Oh, by the way.
That is not 18 points.
No.
And why is there no 0 on that keypad?
What if you wanted to make it happen at 6 o'clock?
He put in 1574?
Yeah, yeah. going to freaking happen.
No, but maybe it's a hexadecimal for 1845.
Well, why is there an A in that?
Why isn't there an A on that?
Oh, I would also love he's got a great old Ford Tyrano.
Manual and Auto.
Tarana was holding anyway.
Not in space.
In space, we all work together.
That's the universe.
I think that would make a Tarana in... automatic.
Like it would defeat the purpose of being a muscle car. emasculating a trauma.
A lady version.
My English teacher had one.
They had a lady.
Look at those buttons.
Look at that fucking keyboard.
These people are putting these.
No, I know.
I'm a huge keyboard porn.
That was Ed Straker's receptionist typewriter repainted.
Oh, really?
But Paul gets to play with all of those toys.
Can I talk about this blonde woman who is clearly from a very, very good girl school.
She's had elocution list.
We haven't seen her before also.
No.
She was just there for the day.
She's dissolved in the phone.
Oh, maybe she does.
Look at that going around.
It's a purple wabbling.
It's just very Hannah barbarian.
Oh, no, look.
More spoof.
Yes.
Victor keeps in a tank for later. someone who got nominated for a porn award for that.
Was it Victor?
That's a drink a pint of it.
Oh, I'll have a part of what the pope.
I'll have what cheese happened.
So has, do you remember foam parties?
I used to love a, we used to do them at the Peel when I worked there in Melbourne when I was hosting the, um, the mud wrestling.
On Sunday, there was a phone party in the other room.
It was a big thing.
It was huge.
I meet that, they often had a phone party going on.
Yeah, what was the point of it?
It was like, so you could wear your underwear, but you didn't feel too exposed.
Yeah, it was just, it made you really slippery and you fell over and onto people.
I've had a whoopsie right into you.
So that was what was happening.
Like the entire moonbase alpha is filling up because it's the 1970s.
No, no, no.
An early proactive homage to the Bezos Sanchez pre-wedding foam party.
Oh my god.
They had a pre-wedding film party on a mega yacht.
Of course they did.
Why did such fans of this spot?
Yeah.
Why did guillotines ever fall out of mansion?
Well, well, the year is young.
Now they've worked out that his brain turned off when they turned off the computer.
Which we saw happen.
Yeah, yeah.
It also happens to me.
I can't get on.
I can't get onto my AI.
I don't know what's going on Oh, the Wi-Fi is down.
Look at, oh, no, look, Victor's hair.
Victor is much more confident than Marty is.
He doesn't give a shit about his hair.
It's just like, I've got this giant hog.
I don't need to worry about my ass.
Also, I'm a very good actor.
And I know that not everyone here is.
So I'm just going to do what I'm doing and just nod when the others speak.
Red Sleeves win the...
Here's Moonbased Alpha Short King.
Oh my god.
That is actually the perfect way of understanding literally everything that happens in season one.
Yeah.
He's the actor.
He's the in the cast.
He knows what acting is.
He's just come off what, was it, 8 years or something of the fugitive.
Right, right.
Like in the US with doing a US American accent chasing around...
Oh, I didn't know any of this.
Yeah, yeah, the Richard Kimberley, the original...
He was the guy.
He was the chasing guy.
The one-legged man, the one-armed man.
No, no, no, no, no.
That was the original murderer.
Oh okay.
Who's chasing who then in this?
So the fugitive was David Jansen, accused of murdering his wife. that he did not, but the one-armed man really did it.
And then he was...
Yeah, Barry Chasing it.
Yeah, chasing the...
So for years.
God, I never got that connection.
He was a household name in the US.
So he was a big star and had a lot of acting cachet.
And then these 2 come over from their mission Impossible.
And he's like, oh, yes, I'll show them what to do this afternoon if that's necessary.
They don't seem to learn though.
They learn nothing.
It's like I was watching EastEnders for a while and um, oh, Timothy West was in it for a while.
And there was this kid who was obviously a West End guy because he used to sing all the time.
And he was the worst actor you've ever seen.
I'm like, how can you be in scenes with Timothy West playing your grandfather?
And you've learned nothing.
You're there every day with one of the best actors who's ever lived and you're getting nothing.
I'm getting Matthew Waterhouse vibes from that story.
Yeah, kids don't kids think they know it every day.
So this is the bit where normally people have a complete spack out and their heads melt when they do, you know, a brain symbiosis.
They've obviously been watching Tom Baker.
Yes. putting things on his temper because when Tom does it, everything goes absolutely... yeah And the wall suddenly goes woo woo.
And he says spack.
And he thinks he's he thinks he's a big, like giant insect.
Yes, and then he gets all sweaty and moist.
Marty's just having a fucking spa day.
They're holding hands.
Yeah, what's that?
That's a little bit.
They start snogging in season two.
Bob's got Kelly.
I've got Kelly firmly in hand.
There you go.
That's it.
Oh, there's some acting there from Marty.
Look at that.
No shame.
No, he's giving us nothing.
It's a bit like the Barbarilla pills sex scene.
That is so funny.
When she's been enjoying doing it for real and then it's like, I want to have pills and she's like, oh.
That's exactly shit, Kelly right now.
I love that.
That's really good It's really good And that's just being done in camera or something or that's, you know, it's wonderful and the lights and stuff. just looks tremendous.
It's so exciting Also he's got too much makeup on.
He really does.
Yeah, that's the worst thing about watching things in high definition that were never meant to be seen.
No, Shane Roomer has got a fair bunch of slap on us.
And also you can see how little hair he actually has.
Like that his entire hair is a comb over.
It's a brain.
Orgasm.
This is how you know your parents took drugs.
Everything in the 70s was like this after 9.30.
It really was, wasn't it?
Yeah, it really was.
Like everything went weirdly psychedelic.
I used to love watching Ironside.
Ironside, yes.
And he occasionally would, you know, have to solve a crime in the in with drug people.
People told drugs, this would happen.
Everything would go weird.
But I never shook that Raymond Burr was also the one that horribly wanted to murder Grace Kelly.
I know.
Ah, rear window.
Also, he was Barry Mason.
I remember talking one day to someone and we decided that Perry Mason was a total bottom.
Someone ran on fur, apparently.
And had quite a bad accident with fisting.
And so proposed Ironside is a...
So we could sit down for a couple of years.
Art, life, life art.
Well, tell me.
It's actually the size of the butt plug he has to have and at all times requires him to be in a chair.
Yeah.
Oh my god, Marty.
Suck the original script, if we ask to do it.
Wait a minute.
I wasn't wearing this when I went under.
For a loyal listener.
The macro organism, the space brain was meant to be, oh, is it God?
Because it's another one of those episodes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So the moon is the microorganism that it generates antibodies for not to dissolve it, although the 2 pretty boys, it was to envelop it and protect it.
Right.
We are part of it.
Oh, so protective Splooge.
Yeah.
But, I mean, the upsetting people were using prediction.
But I mean, the upsetting thing is that we discover in the final scene just in the line of dialogue, oh, and by the way, we killed the blood.
Oh, no, let's wait till we get there because I have notes.
You are kidding me.
I know, and now it's printing out the weird shapes.
That's awesome, though.
I know it's so cool.
Oh, look, stickers.
No, they're rubbed down transfers.
Oh, no, this one's got some...
Oh, there's some over here.
It's so great things to Kelly.
What time is it on that fucking clock over there?
This isn't reshoot 10 months later.
Why?
Because Jerry said none of it made any sense.
So everyone, have you noticed everyone?
we fixed it?
No, no, it makes not sense in the way I intended to.
Well, Jerry said it wasn't clear whether the brain was trying to destroy us or whether we were part of Vietnam.
And Chris Benfold said, that's the point.
It's science space. ambiguity.
Yeah, it's the 70s. don't give answers.
And then he went, yeah, we're making this for a trek audience.
We need answers.
So that's why we've got.
So yeah, so all these actors are now 10 months older than the scene you just saw the war.
Because, I mean, his hair's worn in a lot.
I think it's a different hair.
I think it's a different hair. 3rd hair.
But, sweetheart, this is one of the final scenes ever shot on.
Oh, that's why Sandra's looking shitty. in the dark. always looking shitty.
But turn it around.
Bright eyes.
But that again, it's so stupid, isn't it?
It's just like, again, it's the, you know, that's the thing that's full of nuclear bombs and now we're going to turn it around and then we realise, oh, wait, it's full of nuclear bombs.
What happens when it crashes on?
It's so that that bit is ridiculous.
But I actually do think that disambiguating it makes it worse.
Like if they're not sure about whether the brain is trying to protect them or not, the fact that they then fly through it and kill it.
And it's the brain that a lot of people depend on, we don't, apparently not anyone making the show.
Well, you realise we haven't got a goner now.
Yeah, yeah.
No, we've got that lady who helped them through the black side.
Yeah, but she was only part of this.
She's gone too, by the way.
Oh, no.
And what about Margaret?
What's her face?
Yeah, it's Margaret Margaret Layton, yeah.
Margaret Layton.
What about her?
Is she gone too?
No, it's blown up.
There we go.
Is Julian Glover still here?
This is the only bit of the original scene left because they wouldn't get the Italian lady back because she was the expense thing.
I didn't want to fly at that.
Right.
So that's the only bit that's original.
All of this is new.
Oh, no, it's blown up and now it's going to explode.
Kill us all for no reason.
Sandra, be quiet.
Jeopardy planning.
For jeopardy reason.
No, okay, fair enough.
And if you notice, I've got actually slightly different, gorgeous people in red sleeves behind.
Where's Tanya?
Do they get Tanya?
Oh, that woman's got...
Where's the where's the posh blonde?
Yeah, yeah.
Where's the posh blonde?
There's that woman behind there who got her hair from the same place.
Marty got here. from the same shop.
I love the in the bottom.
Why is Marty not giving anyone else a go?
It's like, oh, I'll strap myself to Kelly.
Because it's the only one not allowed to get Eurovision this year.
Everyone else freaking won it.
Fuck you guys.
Yeah, he's just doing everything.
Well, because he's the star.
That's what they do.
He's the actor.
He's the captain. captains get to captain.
He's the number one.
Also, he's not the best, he did used to be a space pilotess, but he's not the best one.
No, he's not the best one. not the best one.
Well because Kelly's unconscious.
Mind you, she's found solace.
Very quick. very quickly well.
You would though, wouldn't you?
Yeah, yeah.
Suck on this bob for as long advice.
My sad, fat husband is almost dead.
I better just nestle into Bob's moustache.
There's none of us who wouldn't do.
Oh my god.
I want to nestle in Bob's moustache now.
The other thing that makes no sense.
Wait for it.
Ghost eagle.
See that?
So, yeah, they passed in front of each other and it turned out they were.
Phantom.
I, this is the other thing that kind of shits me about this show is that like the space business doesn't actually work because it's all predicated on flying in atmosphere and gravity.
And this really should have the Thunderbirds.
Yeah, that would be bad.
Although I have to say, I really did enjoy the music in this episode.
Do you mean like Springer of War?
No Mars bringer of foam.
Yeah.
Did they not have...
With a budget for original music?
Yes, and no.
So the unions only allowed 4 fresh scores per series. because Moscow was running everything.
Oh, 70s.
No, true.
So yes, it is the 1957 Malcolm Sargeant recording.
Everyone was gay.
Everyone's gay.
Look at these.
Pulling them all out.
Spy, spy, spy.
Coming out of the fucking nuclear ball.
Because you go into the GUI and say, I want to eject.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, no, Microsoft is...
If you don't eject the USB stick.
It gives you a little shock.
I don't think mostly Apple does that.
This is my 2K year.
Oh, of course, yes.
It is.
He can't divert it.
Oh no.
I'm going to crash really slowly.
Do you know what I love about this episode is it's just all consequence.
Like, it's just lots of stuff.
It's like a Harry Potter book.
Without the turfiness.
Yeah, without the turf.
But one of the things that I do like about it is all of that procedural stuff about flying eagles everywhere and like putting giving them, you know, grab hands.
Yeah, they get a grab hands.
Like all of that is awesome stuff, what the fuck is happening here?
Oh, now that one's going to crash.
Wee!
Oh no.
Oh, phew.
Striker pad four.
Lucky.
Oh, look, she looks relieved, doesn't she?
She's Anya.
Oh, look, the whole head came off.
I for a 2nd thought that was the one that John was in.
No, we all thought...
Never killed the captain.
But we didn't.
But they've lost all their nuclear charges now.
How can they divert the planet?
Well, yeah, they were all there then they were going to...
Oh, but he's unplugged them so they didn't explode.
Yeah, but they now can't use them to put around the planet, make the moon go a different direction, which instead they're going to have to go through the brain and kill it and kill it.
Although Victor's done something where he's going to pump up the...
They will count through the extra gravity with extra air.
It's like they've like, seriously?
No, do you know what it is?
They've gone, we need to have a thing so we can put all of the stunt people in space suits.
So you can't tell that it's the actor's name falling over.
Because it's dangerous and slippery.
It all makes no stunt double for this.
It makes no sense.
No, it's just amazing.
So you're saying, Richard, that it is just made up to accommodate some rewrites because Jerry thought it was incomprehensible.
Well, it was the thing of the space brain is not against us, but the elephants to want to destroy it.
And Jerry wanted to show part of his symposium of muff. you know about that?
Symposium of money.
Yeah, the muff was something that was in the Bible, the mysterious, unknown force.
Oh, but it was called the Muff by the Mighters.
Okay.
That's man who's not in touch with his feminine son.
None of them are.
I really found it.
But yes.
So, uh, look, is it messy?
I don't know.
I'm still 10 when I watch this I've gone to the end and felt there are scenes missing because this is just shit.
I didn't I didn't care because things kept happening.
Yeah, yeah.
Which I was excited about. is true.
I went fully 10 year old boy where I was like, yeah, that doesn't make sense.
But there's a thing now.
Now there's phone.
But, oh, look, the Spef's coming.
That's what it looks like when you jizz in the bath, honestly.
Family rated podcast.
It really isn't.
To answer your question.
It's the Jerry rewrites that clarify that the moon's impact killed the brain.
It was in the original group.
Yeah, yeah.
We were meant to be or woo-woo, like the other episodes where we attain a higher consciousness if we so choose to.
Because, I mean, that's kind of depressing.
And then it's a bit Jerry, actually.
Are we sure?
Oh, my God, they're right.
They're making a pizza.
Are we sure it's not...
Impregnate the moon?
Maybe.
It thinks the moon is an egg.
Yeah.
It's lots of sperms coming to the moon.
Like look at those ones.
Peter Capaldi's under that.
They're fully jizzy.
Look at that.
It's meringue at this stage.
It does feel.
If you whip it up too much...
That is great.
That is amazing.
It looks so good.
That's why the moon is Australian because it is a giant Pavlo.
Or kiwi.
Where does that go?
when they go through the moon?
Such a good question.
So in the original script, all the spoofiness, space spoof is actually there to cushion and shield the inhabitants. which is why there is a little moment where the glass breaks, you're about to see in medical or whatever, was the signal for Marty to realise open all the airlocks and let it in.
It will save it.
But it's not in this cut, is it?
No.
And that, I mean, that is like collision course where the idea is that if you just have faith, these things are not hostile and because antibodies, you know, surround the moon and protect the brain from it. not consenting to all of this.
Look at that.
But do you know what I mean?
Like if the antibody surround the moon, they protect the brain from it.
And so having faith means that we both survive.
Instead, we get this sort of miserable thing, which is mostly sort of jizz and and shaving cream and then, you know, killing God at the end of it. very strange.
Yeah.
But it looks amazing.
This is why I love this episode.
It's like, oh, now there's spoof and there's phone.
And also, Bob.
And also Bob.
Bob.
Hey, Bob.
Hey, um, the Jacuzzi's free.
We have to stay here.
I have to stay here with Kelly and have a phone call.
Leave that Italian lady behind and let's go to the solarium.
That looks incredible.
Yeah.
And here comes the foam at the window.
Oh my god.
Not my model.
You've got to get my model.
Save the ball.
I spend weeks building this Lego.
Look at that from there.
Just staring out the window.
She's like, oh, feeling.
That actually looks great.
Oh, Xenia fucking hell.
Now it's gone over my head.
Obscure again.
What a switch to emergency services.
Is that the startling photo?
It's a candidate.
So she's like, I shouldn't be this close to the camera.
It's in my contract.
Oh here we go.
I actually did think that show where she's staring dumbfounded out the window.
It's pretty amazing. at the moment when we're supposed to realise.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
This is here to protect.
And we just missed the bit where Tony Allen is doing the accent.
But it's all a bit kind of Victor.
Oh, it's a foam party.
You coming?
Which episode of The Goodies is this one?
Is this string?
Well, it's Debbie Watson.
Silly stream. somewhere, isn't she?
It's too furious from the death.
I do think that thing where you've got the, you know, the coloured lights, the sort of nebula lights in the background and the jizz kind of descending onto the moon surface looks beautiful.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. amazingly good.
The slopes on the other hand is shit.
I love how slow it's coming, though.
It's like, oh, no, quick, run for...
Shading really lying still.
Bless him.
I love how the extras have.
Isn't this one of those dream sequence dance number?
It is.
From, um, singing in the rain?
Like a foam moment?
No, I'm sure.
Okay, that's just my imagination.
Xanadu. yeah Don't forget this is the year Britain...
They're having so much fun.
They are having so much fun.
That Italian guy in the previous scene had heaps of foam in his moustache.
Is it the year before, Adam, that Britain won Eurovision with Brotherhood of Man?
Maybe this is for me.
But this is 74 when it's shot.
So of course it's Waterloo.
It's Adam.
Ah.
Bang, betting, betting.
Sandra.
Work up there on panel four, where people won't see you.
You can bitch about it. 40 years later.
When everyone else is dead.
I've literally fucking filled the advice.
Now it's coming into the...
I just want to play Marco Polo.
It is really fun.
Yeah, this is the point where Charlie Crichton was saying, you know, there's live electrics on this.
And all there's leave electrics on stage.
And Sandra's getting a bit bothered.
Sandra's in there.
That's the other reason they made them wear the spaces they're insulated.
Well, it was the whole fear of getting...
Vise us down, everyone.
It's the whole fear of getting an STD through the phone.
No, I've got space.
You're going to get pregnant.
It's a spermicidal phone. got space chlamydia again.
Suddenly switched to St.
Patrick's Day alert.
Oh, no.
The moon is jizzing.
Quick, pole dance.
Helen, I get upstairs quickly.
Where's Sandra?
Sandra's like a giant, you know, oh, that's not.
Yeah, that's that's none of them who they're meant to be.
No, no, no, that's just...
They're all stunties.
That's some tip tipping there.
Alf joints, yeah.
Just on a quick close-up of him with a spoof on.
Oh, no, there was a whistling howl as they went through the brain.
Yeah, that's the sound of air going through the brain.
This is the sound of us getting paged.
Look at that.
We survived.
John.
Phew.
Oh, kissing.
Come on.
John, stop.
Let's make out again I think I think you're right.
I think the original version of it is so much better and makes so much sense.
I was not knowing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But I also like the suspicion that maybe the world is kind.
Sorry, Helen is having a moment.
Well, it was my motivation.
Yeah.
No, even in this, we get a hint that, well, because Kelly had to come back and shoot 10 months bloody later, that you know, it actually was trying to help us, but they're all dead now.
Where is the moment?
I didn't see Jack just then where they realised, oh, we've killed...
No, there's nothing here.
It's coming.
It's the worst ending I've ever seen. tore through it like a bullet.
It's just like, wait, what are you saying?
They killed it?
Yeah, we killed it.
What about all those 1000s of galaxies that it was in the centre of?
Oh, by the way, they've also moved 1000s of like minions of life.
They're in a new galaxy now.
Oh, good.
Oh excellent. you know, new space alien bum faces to me.
I love that though.
I love it.
I desert it, Kelly.
No, this is the last thing.
Don't feel better for deserting Kelly.
We killed countless other civilisation.
It was one his brain.
Yeah, like this.
We shouldn't feel guilty about killing that cosmic intelligence.
Yes, we've lost Kelly.
But what about all of those poor non-existent people who depended on that brain?
Who did depend on the brain?
Or the production crew, clearly.
Who is depending on the brain?
Model makers.
He had a lot of dependent children.
Yeah Well, I mean, it was spaffing a lot.
There are heaps of brain making.
It was the Nick Cannon of space.
When you're a god, you've got a lot of illegitimate children.
Right.
So that last moment.
Did you love how they were making the extras hoover up the set?
That was that was really the last thing ever filmed on that scene.
Oh, they were taking it down.
Right up, cut down.
That's it.
That's it, because they're already...
I love that. space to finish the shots.
That's so bad.
But taking it down not to be because it's on most of that was stage L for the Specky fanboys.
So, you know, the big sets of stage M. That was Stage L right next to Stage M. Exactly.
But it was to be put in storage.
And it was put in storage to be used in case there is a season.
And then Freddie Freiburger ate it.
We so...
Well, no, no, he chopped in a really fine powder. snorted it.
I will be weeping again, not only for the loss of Victor, but for the loss of main mission, which I think is the main thing that I cared about when I was watching this show.
Yeah, and there were stairs.
There was an upstairs.
I know, it's so wonderful. could go up there and smoke.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That was while the cool crew hang on.
Yeah, yeah. true.
And they had the bike sheds up there too.
Oh, yeah, the end of trip.
And the girls' toilets, yes.
Well, you currently have the special features documentary, which is mostly Jazenya fucking...
Oh, my God.
Not being invisible under all of that.
I couldn't see me behind his moustache.
Oh, dear.
Well, that was really very good.
It's a fun episode.
I realised I wasn't ever going to work out what was happening because I was so excited by the fact that everything looked like cheers.
And I was like, oh, I don't care now.
There's a rock, there's a rock that's covered in silly string.
There are several eagle takeoffs.
That's my favourite.
No, that's awesome.
Always fun.
You know, there's eagles.
Eagle with a claw.
Yeah, eagle with a claw.
There's an eagle that does a donut in space.
Which again. doesn't happen. next to impossible.
So what do you think?
Do we have any closing statements?
Um, I love space bukake.
No, that's fair.
Oh, the moral ending is so...
It's depressing.
It is, it is.
It's insulting.
Also because it's trying to, like, add gravitas to an episode that's mostly just been, look at all the bubbles.
But there's a sense in which there was clearly something there that was ruined by Jerry Anderson afterwards.
Well, you know that Jerry was being told by Abe Mandel, who, and even Chris Benfold in here says, you know, the Bane, without saying the Barbara of our existence through all of this, that make it more trick.
Make it more trick.
Jerry took that to mean explain everything.
But I don't remember Trek always doing.
No, they were always meeting God.
They meant like eight.
And Kirk was always better than them.
I don't understand how that works. trying to hump them.
Yeah, well, there's that.
Oh, but it was very, everything had to be black and white by the end of Trek.
At the end of the episode, everything is delineated.
But why is science fiction obsessed with meeting God?
That's one thing I found very strange because I've been doing the recent Judy Got was series on my podcast.
And I'm like, 0 my god, that's right.
Even my favourite episode had gods in it.
Which is like the story in the engine. there's a god in everything.
But I mean, there's gods in the Sylvester McCoy era as well.
Yeah.
Like it is a thing.
But I think one of the things about Space 1999 that sets it apart from anything else is just that weird metaphysical thing that it does, that it inherits from 2001.
And it's like, yes, you know, like one week it's some Julian Glover, you know, wanting to fuck his mom.
But like next week, it's Peter Bowles and he is the devil only middle class.
His mum's shoes.
Yeah.
Is that different from Peter Bowles?
No, not at all.
All right.
Well, I think we might wind it up there.
Does anyone have anything to plug?
No.
Nope, the foam has filled it completely.
The phone has filled it.
Oh, maybe it's corking.
I'm going to say that we are going to start a new series of 500-year diary in about 2 weeks, perhaps, depending on how busy I am. in which we watch Torchwood Children of Earth.
Oh, fun.
Yes, it is delightfully fun.
And what an appropriate time now that they're tearing down Yanto's shrine.
Yeah, they really are.
They're literally tearing it down It's full of rotten wood.
It used to be a thing that would make Gary Russell cackle whenever he thought of it.
He thought it was so great.
All right, there's Eddie Burton.
While Zenny Merton is complaining on the screen.
It's time for me to end this episode.
God, almighty woman, stop it.
She's had her nostrils wax.
Nothing in there.
Don't do that?
Hollow tubes. you do that?
I used to do that.
No, I pull them out at the lights when I'm bored.
No, I used to I used to shave them off with powdered glass.
I'm assuming that's what was in the cocaine.
Oh my god.
All right.
Well, in that case, all that remains is for me to say, until next time, perhaps it's time you stop stringing chat GPT along and just propose to him.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Oh, I'm Adam.
Good night.
I'm good, then.